[hipFile] first pass at documentation (#6747)
ROCm/rocm-systems: projects/hipfile/docs/index.rst

.. meta::

>    :description: hipfile is AMD's Infinity Storage library that enables direct-to-GPU I/O for the ROCm platform, bypassing the CPU for data transfers between storage and GPU memory. It provides a C API (and Python bindings) for registering files and GPU buffers, then performing synchronous, asynchronous, and batch read/write operations directly into device memory. The AMD backend uses a fastpath (via HIP runtime extensions) with automatic fallback to POSIX I/O; an NVIDIA backend wraps cuFile for compatibility.

Reviewer: Same comment as below - no need for `an NVIDIA backend wraps cuFile for compatibility.`

.. meta::

>    :description: hipFile is an AMD Infinity Storage library that enables direct GPU IO, allowing data to be transferred between storage devices and AMD GPU memory without CPU staging buffers. It provides a cuFile-equivalent API framework for high-performance IO operations that bypass traditional CPU memory paths, reducing latency and improving throughput for IO-bound workloads such as AI training and scientific simulations. hipFile supports AMD ROCm platforms via a fastpath that uses direct GPU DMA and an automatic fallback to POSIX IO when the fast path is unavailable, and also supports NVIDIA platforms via cuFile. Both a C API and Python bindings are provided.

Reviewer 2: Replace:

> It provides a cuFile-equivalent API framework for

With

> It provides an API framework for

Remove

> , and also supports NVIDIA platforms via cuFile

Author: i removed all nvidia references.

=====================
hipfile documentation
=====================

> hipfile is AMD's Infinity Storage library that enables direct-to-GPU I/O for the ROCm platform, bypassing the CPU for data transfers between storage and GPU memory. It provides a C API (and Python bindings) for registering files and GPU buffers, then performing synchronous, asynchronous, and batch read/write operations directly into device memory. The AMD backend uses a fastpath (via HIP runtime extensions) with automatic fallback to POSIX I/O; an NVIDIA backend wraps cuFile for compatibility.

Reviewer: no need for the `an NVIDIA backend wraps cuFile for compatibility.` statement.

Author: I'll be removing all references to nvidia and cuda as I go through the doc.

> hipFile is an AMD Infinity Storage library that enables direct GPU IO, allowing data to be transferred between storage devices and AMD GPU memory without CPU staging buffers. It provides a cuFile-equivalent API framework for high-performance IO operations that bypass traditional CPU memory paths, reducing latency and improving throughput for IO-bound workloads such as AI training and scientific simulations. hipFile supports AMD ROCm platforms via a fastpath that uses direct GPU DMA and an automatic fallback to POSIX IO when the fast path is unavailable, and also supports NVIDIA platforms via cuFile. Both a C API and Python bindings are provided.

Reviewer 2: same comment as https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems/pull/6747/changes#r3375708807

> `/mnt/c/Users/spolifro/Documents/rocmsystems/projects/hipfile <https://github.com//mnt/c/Users/spolifro/Documents/rocmsystems/projects/hipfile/tree/develop//mnt/c/Users/spolifro/Documents/rocmsystems/projects/hipfile>`_.

Reviewer: This private url can't be right, can it?  Should use the rocm-systems url.

Author: This was generated doc. I'm going through it to eliminate the weirdness.  Ignore anything like that since it's going to be going anyways.

The hipFile source is in the `ROCm rocm-systems monorepo <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems/tree/develop/projects/hipfile>`_.

.. grid:: 2
   :gutter: 3

   .. grid-item-card:: Install

      * :doc:`Install hipFile <install/install>`
      * :doc:`Build hipFile from source <install/build-from-source>`
      * :doc:`Install the hipFile Python bindings <install/python-bindings>`

   .. grid-item-card:: How to

      * :doc:`Register a file and GPU buffer for GPU I/O <how-to/register-file-and-buffer>`
      * :doc:`Exercise hipFile with fio <how-to/use-with-fio>`
      * :doc:`Use the hipFile Python API <how-to/use-python-api>`
      * :doc:`Collect I/O statistics with ais-stats <how-to/collect-io-statistics>`
      * :doc:`Use the ais-stats tool <how-to/hipFile-ais-stats-tool>`

   .. grid-item-card:: Tutorials

      * :doc:`Copy a file via GPU memory using hipFile <tutorials/copy-a-file>`

>       * :doc:`Synchronous file copy walkthrough <tutorials/synchronous-file-copy>`
>       * :doc:`Async multistream I/O <tutorials/async-multistream-io>`
>       * :doc:`Query the hipFile version <tutorials/get-version>`
>       * :doc:`Python file copy with verification <tutorials/python-file-copy>`
>       * :doc:`Perform GPU I/O with the Python bindings <tutorials/python-gpu-io>`

Reviewer 3: Drop the two duplicate tutorial bullets.

```suggestion
      * :doc:`Copy a file via GPU memory using hipFile <tutorials/copy-a-file>`
      * :doc:`Async multistream I/O <tutorials/async-multistream-io>`
      * :doc:`Query the hipFile version <tutorials/get-version>`
      * :doc:`Perform GPU I/O with the Python bindings <tutorials/python-gpu-io>`
```
